The boy was back now with the sardines and the two baits wrapped in a newspaper 
and they went down the trail to the skiff, feeling the pebbled sand under their feet, 
and lifted the skiff and slid her into the water.
¡°Good luck old man.¡°
¡°Good luck,¡° the old man said. He fitted the rope lashings of the oars onto the 
thole pins and, leaning forward against the thrust of the blades in the water, he 
began to line out of the harbour in the dark. There were other boats from the other
beaches go ing out to sea and the old man heard the dip and push of their oars 
even though he could not see them now the moon was below the hills.
Sometimes someone would speak in a boat. But most of the boats were silent except
for the dip of the oars. They spread apart after they were out of the mouth of the
harbour and each one headed for the part of the ocean where he hoped to find fish. 
The old man knew he was going far out and he left the smell of the land behind and
rowed out into the clean early morning smell of the ocean. He saw the phosphorescence
of the Gulf weed in the water as he rowed over the part of the ocean that the fishermen 
cal led the great well because there was a sudden deep of seven hundred fathoms where
all sorts of fish congregated because of the swirl the current made against the steep walls
of the floor of the ocean. Here there were concentrations of shrimp and bait fish and 
sometimes schools of squid in the deepest holes and these rose close to the surface at 
night where all the wandering fish fed on them.
In the dark the old man could feel the morning coming and as he rowed he heard the 
trembling sound as flying fish left the water and the hissing that their stiff set wings made 
as they soared away in the darkness. He was sorry for the birds, especially the small delicate 
dark terns that were always flying and looking and almost never finding, and he thought, 
the birds have a harder life than we do except for the robber birds and the heavy strong
ones. Why did they make birds so delicate and fine as those sea swallows when the ocean 
can be so cruel? She is kind and very beautiful. But she can be so cruel and it comes so 
suddenly and such birds that fly, dipping and hunting, with their small sad voices are made 
too delicately for the sea.
